## What are Preprocessor Directives?
All the statements starting with the # (hash) symbol are known as preprocessor directives in C++. Now, like a coach instructs his/her students to perform certain tasks to improve/her performance, the directives instruct the preprocessor to perform certain tasks to improve the program's performance/capabilities.

For Example : The pre-processor can import the contents of other program files into the source code file, and expand the macros (macro is some constant value or an expression with a name that can be used throughout a C++ program), conditionally compile a code, etc. The only way a preprocessor directive can extend through more than one line is by preceding the newline character at the end of the line by a backslash (\) which contains the following:

* A # (hash) symbol (All the preprocessor directives in C++ start with the # (hash) symbol).
* A pre-processor instruction after the # (hash) symbol. For example, #include, #define, #ifdef, #elif, #error, #pragma etc.
* Arguments are based on the type of the directive. For example, <iostream> is argument for #include, PI 3.14 are arguments for #define directive.

> Code Flow of Preprocessor Directives
1. A developer writes a C program-> and the program checks if there are any preprocessor directives available.
2. If available, it will perform the action event of pre-processor and the compiler will generate the object code. The code will then be executed by the linker.
3. In case no preprocessor directives are available, it will go to the compiler. The compiler will then generate the object code followed by execution of the code by linker.

The preprocessors are the directives, which give instructions to the compiler to preprocess the information before actual compilation starts.
All preprocessor directives begin with #, and only white-space characters may appear before a preprocessor directive on a line. Preprocessor directives are not C++ statements, so they do not end in a semicolon (;).

Preprocessor directives are lines included in the code of programs preceded by a hash sign (#). These lines are not program statements but directives for the preprocessor. The preprocessor examines the code before actual compilation of code begins and resolves all these directives before any code is actually generated by regular statements.

These preprocessor directives extend only across a single line of code. As soon as a newline character is found, the preprocessor directive is ends. No semicolon (;) is expected at the end of a preprocessor directive. The only way a preprocessor directive can extend through more than one line is by preceding the newline character at the end of the line by a backslash (\).
