## Preprocessor directives

are lines included in the code of programs preceded by a hash sign (#). These lines are not program statements but directives for the preprocessor. The preprocessor examines the code before actual compilation of code begins and resolves all these directives before any code is actually generated by regular statements.

These preprocessor directives extend only across a single line of code. As soon as a newline character is found, the preprocessor directive is ends. No semicolon (;) is expected at the end of a preprocessor directive. The only way a preprocessor directive can extend through more than one line is by preceding the newline character at the end of the line by a backslash (\).

A preprocessor conditional compilation directive causes the preprocessor to conditionally suppress the compilation of portions of source code.

## Conditional inclusions (#ifdef, #ifndef, #if, #endif, #else and #elif)

These directives allow to include or discard part of the code of a program if a certain condition is met.


> syntax
```
#if expression		
#ifdef identifier		
#ifndef identifier		
#elif expression		
#elifdef identifier		(since C++23)
#elifndef identifier		(since C++23)
#else		
#endif
```

> Explanation

The conditional preprocessing block starts with #if, #ifdef or #ifndef directive, then optionally includes any number of #elif, #elifdef, or #elifndef (since C++23) directives, then optionally includes at most one #else directive and is terminated with #endif directive. Any inner conditional preprocessing blocks are processed separately.

Each of #if, #ifdef, #ifndef, #elif, #elifdef, #elifndef (since C++23), and #else directives control the code block until the first #elif, #elifdef, #elifndef (since C++23), #else, #endif directive not belonging to any inner conditional preprocessing blocks.

#if, #ifdef and #ifndef directives test the specified condition (see below) and if it evaluates to true, compiles the controlled code block. In that case subsequent #else, #elifdef, #elifndef, (since C++23) and #elif directives are ignored. Otherwise, if the specified condition evaluates false, the controlled code block is skipped and the subsequent #else, #elifdef, #elifndef, (since C++23) or #elif directive (if any) is processed. If the subsequent directive is #else, the code block controlled by the #else directive is unconditionally compiled. Otherwise, the #elif, #elifdef, or #elifndef (since C++23) directive acts as if it was #if directive: checks for condition, compiles or skips the controlled code block based on the result, and in the latter case processes subsequent #elif, #elifdef, #elifndef, (since C++23) and #else directives. The conditional preprocessing block is terminated by #endif directive.


* #ifdef allows a section of a program to be compiled only if the macro that is specified as the parameter has been defined, no matter which its value is.

example:
```
#define TABLE_SIZE 5 
#ifdef TABLE_SIZE
int table[TABLE_SIZE];
#endif  
```

In this case, the line of code int table[TABLE_SIZE]; is only compiled if TABLE_SIZE was previously defined with #define, independently of its value. If it was not defined, that line will not be included in the program compilation.

* #ifndef serves for the exact opposite: the code between #ifndef and #endif directives is only compiled if the specified identifier has not been previously defined.

For example:
```
#ifndef TABLE_SIZE
#define TABLE_SIZE 100
#endif
int table[TABLE_SIZE];
```

In this case, if when arriving at this piece of code, the TABLE_SIZE macro has not been defined yet, it would be defined to a value of 100. If it already existed it would keep its previous value since the #define directive would not be executed.
